Hey, Matt, I mean, it's Biscuit Week.
I'm pretty sure that's a cake.
No, it's a biscuit.
-It's a cake.
-It's a biscuit.
Definitely a cake.
-[sighs]
-Paul, can you settle this?
Is that a cake or a biscuit?
[Paul] It's a dog.
[Matt] Oh.
[all] Welcome
to The Great British Baking Show.
-[Noel] This time…
-Oh, flip.
-…it's Biscuit Week.
-[groans] I don't know what to do.
…with an illusion macaron signature…
-I'm a risk taker.
-What can go wrong?
Oh, Paul Hollywood,
that's what can go wrong.
-…a technical challenge…
-No clue.
-…that ruffles a few feathers…
-[Abdul] Mine are breaking.
I think I'm messing this up.
…and a 3-D biscuit mask showstopper.
Keep it together, lassie.
[Noel] Who will be the belle
of the masquerade ball?
I'm shaking.
[Noel] And whose mask will slip?
[gasps] Oh, I might cry.
I might cry.
[opening theme music playing]
I don't think being a Star Baker last week
gives you anything this week,
because anything can happen.
So… Yeah, Biscuit Week.
[nervously] Here I come.
[laughing]
[sing-song] Good luck everybody.
I think I was near the bottom last week.
I'm feeling apprehensive.
There's more to prove,
and biscuits aren't really my thing.
[laughing]
Biscuits… Oh, I like to eat them.
Not really make them.
Who makes biscuits nowadays?
You usually get it from the supermarket.
Good morning, bakers.
Welcome back to the tent for Biscuit Week.
Now, for your signature challenge,
these guys would like you to make
a batch of 18 identical
decorative macarons.
Yeah, that's macaron, the yummy biscuit,
Not Macron, the president of France.
[Janusz laughing]
Now they can be any flavour you like.
They must be filled. But here's the twist,
the decoration must make them look
like something other than a macaron.
For instance, the president of France.
[Noel] Exactly.
-You have two hours
-On your marks…
-[sing-song] Get set…
-Bake.
Here we go. [laughs nervously]
Macarons aren't really my thing.
But it should be fun.
What could go wrong with a macaron?
Everything. Everything could go wrong
with a macaron.
They can explode.
They can underbake,
they might stick to the mat.
There are 87 things that can go wrong.
For me, the perfect macaron
is very light, perfectly shaped,
outside, smooth and shiny
and crisp as anything.
And inside, deliciously chewy.
But we're not asking the bakers
for any old macaron.
They have to be shaped or decorated
to look like something else.
We want to see colourful,
we want to see vibrance
and we wanna see personality coming out.
Right, chuck all that in now.
[Paul] The best way
to approach this challenge is simplicity.
They've only got two hours.
Produce something that packs a punch
and looks amazing.
Don't try and overdo it at this stage.
-Morning, Carole.
-Morning.
So, Carole, tell us about your macarons.
I decided to make little burgers.
-Burgers.
-Little bite-sized burgers.
-You have got the best accent…
-Yeah.
-… to say "burgers."
-[Carole] Burgers.
It just reminds me of nice summer evenings
with friends and family.
Homemade burgers with a proper cider.
[Noel and Carole laughing]
Proper job.
[Matt] When she's not entertaining
guests in the garden,
Compost Carole can be found
in the greenhouse, tending to her plants.
I love the smell of a greenhouse.
[Matt] Topped with sesame seeds,
Carole's macaron buns
will be filled
with a chocolate orange buttercream,
chocolate lettuce and fondant tomatoes.
But her burgers have competition.
Sandro's making burgers. [chuckles]
He's got chips with his.
Why didn't I think of that?
[Sandro] I usually eat healthy,
but my burger order is ridiculous.
So I'll get normally
a triple cheeseburger,
and I'll also get a full
chicken burger as well with it,
and nuggets.
[Noel] But working out
for two hours every day
means Sandro can go large
on his cheat days.
-What's this, 5,000 calories?
-[woman] Isn't it?
[Noel] Served with fondant chips,
Sandro's take on macaron burgers
will be filled with a passion fruit
and rum salted caramel.
And chocolate ganache ketchup.
I'm confident with my flavours,
I'm sure they'll like it.
And I'm trying to beat
the flavour king Janusz right here.
So he's my flavour competition here, so…
-[Janusz] Sorry.
-[laughing] Let's see.
So what I'm making today,
it will be a watermelon Macarons,
so, they're gonna look like
tiny little watermelons.
My inspiration for this bake
is Brighton Beach,
because what's better
than cold watermelons on the beach?
On a hot, sunny day.
[Matt] And when the Brighton skies
are a little more cloudy,
Janusz likes to spend time
putting balls with boyfriend Simon.
[Janusz gasps]
-Hole in one.
-[Janusz exclaiming]
[Matt] Crammed with
a bright red watermelon and lemon curd
and a watermelon buttercream,
he's using spinach powder to colour
his macaron shells a distinctive green.
And as well, it gives flavour,
because watermelon has this
sort of plant flavour to it,
and I think spinach powder recreates this.
[Matt] Also hoping
for a bit of plant power is Maxy.
I am making daisies.
-You've got daisies on your jumper today.
-That's right.
[Maxy and Prue laughing]
Why daisies?
Is this to do with your daughters?
Yes, they're both born in April.
So I thought daisies, April flowers…
[Matt] Maxy's little daisies,
Tyra and Talia
are at home with Dad Tyshak,
who Maxy met when they
worked together in a local supermarket.
Both Tyra and Talia's favourite flavours
will feature in Maxy's macarons,
raspberry mascarpone cream
and salted caramel.
How old are your little girls?
-Four and five. Yeah.
-[Noel] Four and five? Wow.
Although this is really difficult,
it's basically a holiday for you.
I do miss them.
I wake up, I'm like…
-That's how they get ya.
-…"Oh, where are my kids?"
Knackered as you are,
you go, "I miss them."
I do, yeah. [laughs]
-[Paul] Good luck, looking forward to it.
-Thank you. Thank you.
[Matt] Maxy's macarons
aren't the only ones
being flavoured with a family favourite.
The fillings are inspired
by my mum's favourite flavours.
And I want to make her proud.
So I don't want these macarons
to let me down.
[Noel] Mum Afaf has instilled in Maisam
a love of traditional Libyan flavours.
[Afaf speaking Arabic] You do the
sprinkles and I will do the sesame.
-[Maisam] There?
-[Afaf] Here.
[Noel] Maisam's bringing a taste
of her mum's favourite baclava
into the tent today
with her orange blossom-infused
crushed walnuts
and mascarpone cream,
which will fill her macarons,
that will be shaped and decorated
to look like cute carrots.
They're carrot-shaped. Why?
To be honest, I was thinking
about macarons,
the first thing that came
to my mind was carrots.
-Really?
-Yeah.
Macarons reminded you of carrots?
-With which they have no relation.
-[laughs]
-Well, good luck with your…
-[Maisam] Strange macarons.
-Your strange macarons.
-I look forward to trying them.
-Erm, thank you, Matt.
[Noel] No matter what shape,
they're macarons,
getting the consistency
of their mixture right is crucial.
This is where it could all go wrong.
[Noel] Under mix and their macarons
could explode in the oven.
Trying to remember
what it should look like.
They should fall like, erm,
sort of like that.
I'm happy with the batter.
[Noel] Overmix, and they risk
knocking out the air
resulting in flat, shapeless macarons.
All the batter is now done,
and now it's time for piping.
[Noel] If piping perfectly round macarons
wasn't tricky enough…
[Carole] Whoa!
I've not got no nipples.
I just hope they rise now. [laughs]
[Noel] …those with more elaborate designs…
[Abdul] They're ice cream-shaped macarons.
-Do they look like ice cream?
-…face an even bigger challenge.
[sighs]
[Maxy] I'm a bit worried about
how the petals will turn out.
Hopefully they don't
spread too much in the oven.
[Matt] But with complex piping…
[James] So this is a wee design
I came up with.
…James is upping the ante.
So they're based on a raccoon,
'cause I have a wee baking raccoon tattoo.
Did you just say you have
a wee racoon baking tattoo?
-[laughs]
-[James] I do.
-[Prue] Oh, my goodness, it's not so wee.
-[laughter]
[Matt] Currently living in Cumbria,
James often dreams up his best baking
ideas while strolling along the seafront.
His intricately-piped macarons
will be filled
with raspberry whipped cream
and a mango curd filling.
It's so ambitious.
I think I've really overestimated
my abilities here. [laughing]
If you've practised it'll be fine.
[laughing]
Okay, well, good luck.
About time someone fused
raccoons and baking.
-You're the man to do it. Good luck.
-Here we are.
I appreciate it.
[Matt] But James' raccoons aren't the only
furry friends in the tent today.
[Rebs] My macarons are based
on my cat Branston.
I got him when I was eight,
he's important to me. He's like my baby.
[Matt] When she's not doting
on 15-year-old Branston,
Rebs likes to relax
by playing the tin whistle.
My hands smell like cat food.
[Matt] Filled with chocolate
ganache and raspberry coulis,
her cat-shaped macarons
will hopefully immortalise
her beloved feline friend.
I don't think… I didn't mix them…
I didn't mix it enough.
I don't know if I should just mix it
a bit more.
[groans] I don't know what to do.
Janusz, I don't know if I should just
scrape it back in and keep mixing.
Do you feel they're not mixed enough?
-They're just too thick.
-They are very thick.
Right? I'll just go for it.
I was scared of making them too thin
and then I made them too thick.
Re-mix and hope I've not lost
too much mixture.
-[Noel] While Rebs is feeling the heat…
-[Rebs groans]
…Kevin's keeping his cool.
[Kevin] I'm making
ice cream cone macarons.
My wife and I like to take the dog
a trip up to Loch Lomond,
visit somewhere like Luss
and get an ice cream.
[Matt] Kevin and his wife Rachel
might enjoy a cornet,
but dog Judy has much simpler tastes.
Where's your stick?
[Matt] Kevin will fill
his cone-shaped macarons
with a peppermint ganache,
a nod to his favourite ice cream flavour,
mint choc chip.
-I like a mint choc chip.
-Yeah.
Yeah!
[Kevin] Hopefully it doesn't
turn out like toothpaste.
-Well, that is the risk.
-Yeah.
[Matt] Gotta get it good, 'cause you're
not the only person doing ice creams.
-I know, Abdul's doing ice creams as well.
-[Abdul] I love ice cream.
That's my favourite dessert
and as a child growing up,
I used to even have breakfast
with ice cream.
[Noel] But as an adult,
Abdul has swapped his ice cream breakfast
for a run around the block.
He's filling his ice cream cornet macarons
with a chocolate, coffee
and caramel mix ganache.
-[Matt] But they're pink.
-[Abdul] Yes.
[Matt] You weren't tempted
to do a strawberry flavour?
No. When you think of ice cream,
the first colour I think of is pink.
-Yeah?
-You?
-Pink, definitely.
-[laughing] Yeah, okay.
Thank you.
Vanilla really.
Bakers, you have
an amount of time remaining.
-[Noel] That was helpful.
-Oh, you're welcome.
Bakers, you are halfway through.
[Carole] I'm going in.
[Matt] Macarons bake
in a matter of minutes…
[Kevin] And boom.
…and going from underbaked and gooey…
Goodbye.
…to tough and chewy
in the flick of a whisk.
[Dawn] I'm gonna give them 18 minutes
and that's it.
[Sandro] It says to bake it
for 18 minutes,
so I'm going for 20… [chuckles]
'cause everything changes in here.
Time is not real here.
[Matt] Any delay in getting
the macarons into the oven
means less time to cool and decorate.
Still not in?
I can't get them in the oven now
because they're not ready.
Oh, my days, I need to hurry up.
[Matt] As Rebs races to catch up,
the other bakers turn their attention
to fillings.
So this is for the mango curd.
And because it's got
quite a high water content
I'll use a bit of mango extract
to try and like boost it up a little.
[Kevin] So this is dark chocolate.
I wanted something bitter
to go in the middle
so I'm not putting
any sugar in my ganache.
I'm just letting the peppermint lift it.
So I'm just beating together
the softened butter and mascarpone.
Get that into a creamy consistency
and then I can do my crunchy walnut
and orange blossom.
I'm extruding sugar paste
to make the string for my yo-yos,
because my piping
isn't good enough to pipe it.
[Noel] A big kid at heart,
Dawn loves to visit the local petting zoo
with daughter Belinda.
-[Belinda] Just spat at me!
-[Dawn] Who did the spitting?
You should be ashamed of yourself.
[Noel] Dawn's multicoloured yo-yo macarons
will be filled with a mascarpone cream,
packed full of sharp strawberry flavour.
[Dawn] This is
freeze-dried strawberry powder.
We're not measuring.
We're just throwing it in.
[Matt] Dawn might be using sharpness
to combat her macarons' sweetness…
[Dawn] I don't want to hear
there's not enough strawberry.
…but Syabira's taking a different tack.
[Noel] What on earth
is going on here? [chuckling]
I'm actually trying to make
some savoury macarons.
My favourite food is chicken satay,
when I was in Malaysia,
and we usually had it all the time,
And why not put a chicken satay
in a macaron?
[Noel laughs]
[Matt] Flavour fanatic Syabira
only uses the very best ingredients,
each one having to pass rigorous
taste tests with boyfriend Bradley.
[Bradley] I don't usually go for crunchy,
but this is really good.
-We love this one.
-Love it.
[Matt] Shaped like enormous peanuts,
her savoury macarons will be filled
with a tofu satay sauce.
-Tofu?
-[Prue] It doesn't taste of anything.
-And she'll make it taste wonderful.
-Chicken satay.
It's chicken satay,
in a bracket, "no chicken."
-[Prue laughing]
-[Noel] You're bonkers in the best way.
I feel like this is so original.
-[laughing]
-Thank you very much.
-Wow. Good luck.
-[Syabira] Thank you.
[Matt] Bakers, you have half an hour left.
Yeah? Dawn's finished, drink that in.
This is ridiculous. [chuckling]
Okay. They're in. Right, icing time.
[Noel] As Rebs' macarons hit the heat…
They're done. [sighs]
…everyone else's are starting to cool.
I thought I wouldn't be fanning stuff,
but here we are.
They're a bit flat, but they didn't
explode on the top. I'm happy about that.
They're carrot-shaped, they're orange,
they're ticking some of the boxes,
but my filling's not looking good.
It just, sort of, curdled.
I think I over mixed it.
So I need to restart that.
[Noel] Just as a tip for the future.
Paul hates tofu.
He's got, like, a real thing against tofu.
-Really? I'm a risk taker.
-[Noel] Yeah.
[laughs] Are you?
-[Syabira] Yeah.
-[Noel] I'm a risk taker too.
-It's fun, isn't it?
-Yeah.
[Carole] Right. Burger time. Not too much.
[Dawn] The perfect amount of filling
is when you sandwich it together,
you don't want it to kind of go
splurting out all over the place.
[James] So this will be the cream border
that will hold the mango curd.
[Syabira] I think it's good,
but if Paul are not happy with it,
next time I'll make him a chicken satay,
send it to him. [laughing]
The filling's definitely a lot better
than the first one.
The first one was too runny.
So I want to get moving, get those filled.
And then if I have enough time,
I'm gonna decorate.
Bakers, you have 15 minutes remaining.
[Rebs] They were way neater
and I was way quicker in practice.
I'm so far behind.
All in all, not great.
[Carole] Just popping
chocolate lettuce on,
a little fondant, erm, tomato and cheese.
[Janusz] Watermelon, lemon curd
and watermelon butter cream.
-What are you doing there?
-I'm just adding some sprinkles.
Don't over-egg it. They look like eggs.
-But in a good way.
-[chuckles]
Egg daisies. [chuckles] No, they don't.
They're things of beauty
And they're dedicated to your children.
-Yes.
-What can go wrong?
Oh, Paul Hollywood,
that's what can go wrong.
Spanner in the works.
[Rebs] I really need to fill them.
Bakers. You have one minute left.
Janusz, can you help me?
[Maisam] Decoration's not happening.
As long as they get macarons
that taste good.
Not doing anything extra today.
Can you pipe that in the middle of this?
-This?
-Yeah, yeah.
[Dawn] Ooh, string broke.
Start putting them together,
you have nothing to present.
-[Carole] Yeah.
-[Rebs] Okay.
Faces on. Faces on.
Bakers, your time is up.
Stressful.
[in American accent] Please step away
from your macarons.
-Where'd you get the mango from?
-James.
[sighs]
[Rebs] They look horrific.
[Paul] Overall, I think
the design is pretty good.
It's a black cat. You can see that.
The interior looks a mess.
-Yeah. [laughs]
-[Prue] The actual face is beautiful.
Piping is perfect. So it's just the middle
that doesn't look good.
So the flavour is chocolate macaron
with a chocolate ganache
and a raspberry coulis.
[Paul] I actually quite like them.
I like the flavour.
-I just think they're a mess.
-[Prue] You didn't have time.
-Yeah.
-But you know that.
-Yes. Thanks.
-[Paul] Thank you, Rebs.
-[Prue] I'd have liked them more domed.
-Okay.
Especially if they should
look like a burger.
[Paul] Could have been
a bit darker with the bun.
[Carole] Mmm.
They're chocolate and orange,
some green chocolate for the lettuce,
and little bits of fondant
for the cheese and tomato.
[Paul] What orange did you use?
-Erm, essence.
-[Paul] Mmm…
Did you use any zest as well?
-No. Yeah?
-You should've done.
I quite like the idea
of the chocolate, the orange.
But, for me, it's the artificial flavour.
-[Carole] Okay.
-Mistake.
They look great.
I like the sesame seed on the top
and how the burger
seems to hang over the edge.
-[Prue] Are these fondant?
-[Sandro] Yes, they are.
So, I got passion fruit
and lemon macarons.
There's a passion fruit salted caramel
in the middle with a little bit of rum.
Flavour is absolutely fantastic.
-Okay.
-Not too much rum.
-Just the right amount.
-Thank Goodness.
I think you've done a good job.
-Well done.
-Thank you.
Well done.
[sighs in relief]
[Paul] They look great. You've got
a lovely dome on these and feet.
So I've decided to make
spinach-flavoured shells
with just tiny bit of lemon.
And inside you've got watermelon curd
and watermelon buttercream.
It's quite dry on the outside, it should
be much more delicate than that, the skin.
It's a shame because the shape,
the look, the flavour, I love.
You've dried it out a bit too much.
-And I agree with you completely.
-[Prue chuckles] Good.
-Oh, thanks.
-[all chuckling]
I see what they are.
I think they're quite clever.
So they are filled
with a raspberry double cream
and a mango curd.
I think your flavours are delicious.
It's nice and light.
The macaron is so thin, so it melts, just
leaving the beautiful flavours inside.
But the fruit gives it a bit of acidity
which takes away
from the extreme sweetness.
The balance of flavours is beautiful.
Imagination's fantastic.
-You've achieved it really well.
-Thank you.
You've done better
than you thought you would.
-Well done.
-Cheers, thank you.
[Prue] They look perfect little macarons.
Nice feet on the bottom. Crisp outside.
-Neat as a pin.
-[Paul] Yeah, very good.
[Dawn] They've got a strawberry
mascarpone cream filling.
-[Prue] You're looking very anxious.
-I am.
-Well, I love the flavour.
-Oh, good.
-At first, it just…
-[Paul] Mmm…
-Go on. Go on.
-No. [laughing]
Well done.
-[bakers applauding]
-[indistinct chattering]
Oh, my goodness.
The macaron is perfect.
Absolutely perfect.
The idea of putting the string around,
as the fondant…
Just the interior, it lifts you up,
'cause sometimes, er, inside of macarons
can be quite heavy.
-And dense. Mmm.
-That's also a really clever idea.
-It's effective.
-It's amazing. Thank you.
Thanks. Thanks so much.
[sighs]
[Prue] I'd have thought it was a balloon.
A hot air balloon
rather than an ice cream.
It needs to be much darker.
You don't get white cones.
The pink on the top's okay,
but it's down to the taste.
Inside, we have a caramel coffee,
chocolate ganache.
[Prue] Mmm.
Absolutely delicious if you like coffee.
[Paul] Chocolate's lost
a bit in the coffee,
and the salted caramel
you can't really taste either,
-Which is a shame. Hmm.
-[Prue] But it is delicious, all the same.
[Paul] You could sort of see what it is.
It probably needed a stronger colour.
Just so it looked more like a cone itself.
Yeah, so it's a dark chocolate
ganache, with peppermint.
[Prue] Peppermint.
It doesn't taste like toothpaste…
-Okay.
-…you'll be pleased to hear.
But the mint's still a bit strong.
The textures are all right, it's just
a question of flavours a little bit.
Yeah. Okay.
There is an effort there
to make a carrot shape.
I would like to see
maybe some pipe work on the top
to really define
-the sort of wrinkles in the carrots.
-Mmm-hmm.
The filling is a mascarpone cheese cream,
crushed walnut
with orange blossom and cinnamon.
The textures are spot on.
For me, the orange blossom
is just slightly too strong.
Too strong.
And I'd like to see a bit more definition
on the carrot.
I agree that the look of it isn't perfect.
Yes.
[Paul] Nice height to the macaron.
You can see the feet there as well.
[Prue] You've done really well.
It's peanut satay macaron.
And when you bite into it,
you should taste the bits of tofu
with the ginger inside as well.
[Prue] That's very surprising.
Initially, you get that sweet kick.
Then you get all the spices
and I love that flavour.
And then it goes back to sweet again.
Which is a shame 'cause you
don't want to be left with the sweet.
-You want to be left with some savoury.
-Hmm.
I mean, I think the satay is fantastic.
It really is beautiful.
-Okay. Thank you.
-[Paul] Thank you.
[Paul] Firstly, they look great.
They're very neat, very delicate.
-[Prue] They have little feet.
-[Paul] And they're nice and smooth.
Nice shine to them as well.
Thank you.
Flavours are raspberry mascarpone cream.
And salted caramel.
[Prue] That is delicious.
Got a little bit of acidity,
which is lovely.
-I love it.
-[Paul] Hmm.
[Maxy] Thank you.
[Paul] Hmm.
-Thanks.
-That's delicious.
It's really light.
-Light, it melts in your mouth.
-Summery.
And the whole thing is so delicate.
That saltiness comes through as well.
[Prue] Well done, Maxy.
-Thank you so much.
-Thank you. [chuckles]
[squeals] Good God.
I was so worried,
'cause I hate macarons so much.
[laughing] But it worked!
And they loved it.
I'm so happy.
I don't wanna cry. [laughing]
Two handshakes?
That was crazy.
That… that was absolutely insane.
I think my family are just gonna go mad.
They're gonna be so excited.
The comments were just as I expected.
Erm, in terms of decoration,
just an extra ten minutes
would have just made those macarons super.
[Rebs] Oh, I definitely think
I'm dead-set last, 100%.
I really need to step it up.
I'm not confident
about the technical bake.
What could it be?
If it's like shortbread, it's easy-peasy.
I doubt it will be that.
[Noel] The bakers
could practise their macaron,
but they have no idea
what they'll be asked to make next.
Well, bakers, it's time
for your technical challenge,
which today has been set
by footballing legend Wayne Prue-ney.
[all chuckling]
Wayne, any, er, words of advice?
This is an absolute classic.
Don't get creative,
just stick to the recipe
and don't dare disappoint.
As ever, the technical challenge
will be judged blind.
So we have to ask these two
to go and play outside.
Can you hold hands, please,
when you're crossing the road?
For this week's technical challenge,
Prue would like you
to make 12 Garibaldi biscuits.
Otherwise known as squashed fly biscuits.
On account of the dried fruit
looking a little bit like squashed flies.
Now you can use actual squashed flies
in your recipe, but I will say in advance,
how sorry we are to see you
leave this early in the competition.
-You have one hour and 45 minutes.
-[Noel] On your marks…
-Get set…
-Flies.
[Matt laughing]
[Kevin laughing]
[Rebs] Squashed fly biscuits.
That's what my mum's called them.
I think I've had them,
but I've never made them.
I'm well chuffed. I know what it is.
I was up till 2:00 a.m.,
reading about biscuits.
I've never heard of it or eaten it before,
so this is the first time I'm hearing it.
No clue. I'm literally just baking.
So, Prue, Garibaldi biscuits.
Interesting technical challenge.
Well, yes. They sound simple,
but they're quite tricky.
Where could they go wrong?
[Prue] You need to roll the dough
really thin.
You want the crisp biscuit,
but slightly bendy, soft middle,
and a thin line of fruit.
You've got the addition of chocolate.
Chocolate is not, erm…
[chuckles] classically Garibaldi.
But I want to see
how skilful they are at feathering.
When you pick it up, there's stability.
It's a bit soft under the finger.
But you know you've got
something that's quite…
-solid
-Yeah.
-Hmm.
-[Paul] Mmm.
-It's a flavoursome biscuit.
-It's absolutely delicious.
I'm sure we'll probably get
11 different types of Garibaldi biscuit.
Well, I'm hoping to see
11 pretty well like that.
Fat chance. [chuckles]
So the first step is chop
and soak the fruit in the orange juice.
I'm trying to get them fly-size,
so I won't chop the currants
'cause they're tiny.
It doesn't say for how long,
so I guess I'll soak them
until I do my dough.
"Make the dough and chill." Very helpful.
She gave us a few clues
like the butter's in small cubes,
which means you make wee bread crumbs.
My signature didn't go as I expected it.
I'm not in a good position.
Stressed. [chuckles]
[Carole] …then I'll add the sugar,
then I'll add the egg.
-[Noel] Did you get a handshake?
-[Dawn] Yes.
-[Noel] Washed it yet?
-Of course I have.
-Have you? Washed off the Hollywood?
-Yeah.
-I washed off the Hollywood.
-You never do that.
-I'm--
-You let it seal up like a resin.
-Then you peel it off like a glove.
-Do you?
Nice and soft. Is it too soft? Who knows?
[Dawn] Gonna put it in the fridge, now.
Starting to, sort of,
visualise what they look like.
It should be a layer of biscuit,
a layer of fruit
and then layer of biscuit.
This looks wrong.
Oh, flip's sake. [laughs]
I just realised I didn't read it.
I put the fruit in here.
-[Noel] Hi, how are you?
-Not great.
-How was the handshake?
-It was amazing.
But now I'm messing this up.
What do you think about this?
I don't know what that is.
I think he might take his handshake back.
-[laughing]
-[Noel] He does do it occasionally.
[Maxy] Oh, no! I have to start again here.
-"Drain and dry the fruit."
-Do you need that to be quite dry?
[Sandro] This'll look good for my arms.
-[chuckles]
-What biscuits do you like?
-Ginger nut.
-Ginger nut?
I'm boring, but I like a 30p pack
of, you know, ginger nut that'll do me.
Do you like pink wafer?
-I do actually like pink wafer.
-They're nice. Custard cream?
-Yeah.
-Any biscuits you don't like?
The Garibaldi. [laughs]
Forget it.
This is actually a lesson to learn.
I should pay attention to the recipe.
I feel so silly.
I'm gonna try to catch up
with everyone, if I can.
Matt, do you wanna do
the time call or shall I?
No, I'm Matt, that's Dave Plate.
Right. I always get you two mixed up.
I'll do it.
Bakers, you are halfway through.
"So cut the dough in half and roll out
each piece in a rectangle."
Looking at the sizes,
you've got to roll it quite thin.
[Sandro] I think that's good.
It's quite thin.
"Sprinkle evenly with the fruit."
Question now,
do they want all of the fruit?
[Rebs] Like, that's a fly graveyard.
That's too many flies.
When I've got a cup of tea
and I want a biscuit,
I always imagine, "Mmm, fly graveyards."
[giggles]
"Lay the second rectangle
of pastry on top."
So that means it's just basically
dough, fruit and dough.
Now I'm just gonna cut this into 12.
-[Sandro] I'm going to mark it.
-[Carole] I have to work it out.
-[Noel] This is maths.
-This is maths now.
Which I was never good at.
I don't feel like sticking around
-for you doing maths.
-[laughs] No.
[Kevin] If the rectangle's 9 cm wide
and there were 12 of them,
then 3.5 cm times 12, 35…
I'm just gonna do it roughly,
literally eyeball this thing.
I'm not sure this is maths,
what you're doing. [laughs]
This is really--
If maths was like this at school,
I probably would have liked it.
I know.
Sort of poking stuff with a knife,
mumbling. [laughing]
I'll just cut them into 12.
-[Janusz] Oh, no.
-[Rebs] How many have you made?
-I've made 24.
-[Rebs] Why?
[Janusz] That happens
when you don't know what you're doing.
I'll just freeze them together
and put them really close.
I would've left it
in the fridge a bit longer,
but I just need to catch up. [chuckles]
Right, they're going in.
Oi, one, two, three.
[Syabira] Putting them in now.
[exclaims, laughs]
[James] Here we go.
[Sandro] Okay, bake well.
Don't disappoint me, guys.
-Say a prayer.
-I don't know how long they need to bake.
I'm gonna do ten minutes to start with
and see what happens.
I'm gonna do 15 minutes.
I'm putting about 12 minutes
because I'm not sure what I'm looking for.
Once they kind of look like biscuits,
I'll just take them out.
I'll try to remember how it looks like
and then I will know how long to bake it.
Oh!
Hmm. I think I remember.
It's quite pale.
Hmm. I think I get it.
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
-And I have no legs left.
-[chuckles]
-I told you I was heavier than I look.
-It's fine.
I'm made of strontium.
[Maxy] I'm gonna go straight in.
Should've gone this fast from the start.
Oh, my goodness.
The colour's looking nice. Looking golden.
-[timer beeping]
-[James] I think they're ready.
[Rebs] Don't know if they're ready or not.
[James] Don't think
they're meant to be golden brown.
I think they're meant to be
like a light toasted brown.
-Yeah.
-I'm gonna bake another five minutes.
And I know they don't need to be too dark,
but I want them to be golden.
They are looking… [sighs]
…okay-ish.
I don't know
if this will eventually, like, cool down
to be a much more tougher one
or will it just stay like that, soggy.
Because that's not what I want.
They stuck together really nicely.
They're not breaking.
So I'm quite happy
that I could save the situation.
[timer beeping]
[Dawn] Oh, these might be too dark.
Oh, dear.
They're brown enough.
[sighs] Oi.
Bakers, you have ten minutes remaining.
[Rebs] "Dip each side into chocolate."
[Dawn] I have never seen them
with chocolate.
I have only ever had
Garibaldi biscuits in a packet.
Oh, I'm just gonna go for it. Ugh.
I'm not dipping, I'll just drizzle.
[Sandro] They're just too fiddly to dip.
[Abdul] Oh, mine are breaking. [chuckles]
"Create feather decoration
using the white chocolate."
I'm piping white chocolate
onto the dark chocolate,
then I'll run a cocktail stick through.
[Sandro] "Feathering."
I was like, "What is that?"
"We've gotta make feathers
out of chocolate?"
Trying to draw a feather
that'll go on top of the biscuit.
I am creating a feather decoration.
Prue said, "Don't get creative.
Just follow the instructions."
Bakers, you have one minute left.
It's an absolute mess, man.
Oh, I'm feeling so bad.
I might actually do the wrong feather.
Seems like everybody
do it slightly differently.
[Maxy] I don't know
if this will set on time. Oh!
[Syabira] This is not happening.
It's wrong feather!
Bakers, your time is up.
Please bring your Garibaldis
down to the gingham table
and place them behind your photographs.
If you're not proud of what you've done,
behind someone else's photo.
[Maisam] Oh, wow! Actual feathers.
[Sandro] He's done a whole feather.
That looks amazing.
Okay, bakers,
it's time to invite the judges back in.
Hello, bakers.
[Matt] Prue and Paul are expecting
12 crisp golden-brown Garibaldi biscuits
packed with dried fruit
and exquisitely decorated
with feathered chocolate.
That's wonderful. Look at that. Feathers.
-[both laughing]
-[Prue] Wonderful.
[Paul] Start with number one.
-[Prue] Nice feathering.
-The actual biscuit looks not too bad.
It's nice and thin.
-[Prue] Biscuit's too soft.
-[Paul] Hmm.
And the chocolate's a bit too thick.
-But it tastes good.
-The flavour's okay, though.
Just a little bit soft.
Moving on to this one.
Very nice feathering.
You can see the currants coming through.
-[Paul] Yeah.
-[Prue] I like that.
Very soft again.
[Prue] I think that's a lot to do with
not drying the fruit out properly.
So it's soaking in and being absorbed
into the biscuit itself, yeah.
-Bit pudding-y, but it's delicious.
-[Paul] Hmm.
[laughing] The next one's
actually got a feather on the top.
-That's quite original.
-It's ridiculous, that's what it is.
-[both laugh]
-That's genius, Paul.
It's not what we asked for, though.
They're thin
and it has stayed in the middle.
It's a bit soft.
Right, this one is…
They're very uneven, the biscuits.
That one is a bit peculiar.
-Yeah. Tastes good.
-[Prue] Nice, crisp pastry, though.
-[Paul] These are thick with chocolate.
-[Prue] The feathering's good.
-[Paul] The feathering's nice.
-Nice and crisp.
-[Paul] Hmm.
-[Prue] Good biscuit, that.
[Paul] These look quite thick.
-They're not the right size.
-Not flat and rectangular.
-They're lovely and buttery.
-Yeah.
Could have got more
if you'd rolled it thinner.
[Paul] Rolled them out thinner.
These are fingers.
Lot of chocolate on there.
-[Prue] They look properly baked.
-[Paul] Mmm.
They are crispy. Taste is good.
Just the wrong shape and too thick.
-Er, moving onto… this mess.
-[Prue] This is not good.
Wow. [laughs]
More chocolate on the plate
than on the biscuits.
-[laughing] What is that?
-It will taste lovely, I promise you.
-[Paul] Needed longer in the oven.
-That's one of the problems.
That's one, the feather is the other one.
And the chocolate is the other.
-[Prue chuckles]
-It needed longer in the oven as well.
Right, look at these. [chuckles]
[Paul] Chocolate's all over the place.
And the wrong shape.
Nice and crisp,
but they are a little overbaked.
-Bit rustic.
-[Paul] Very thick, aren't they?
Nicely baked.
[Paul] This is more the shape.
It's like they've made, er, two.
-[Prue] They're doubles.
-[Paul] I think I've got too much.
-I'm gonna join them together.
-[Prue] Yes.
They taste all right.
It's nice and thin.
Looks a bit messy, but the bake is right.
[Paul] Hmm.
[Matt] Paul and Prue will now
rank the Garibaldis from worst to best.
In 11th place, we have this one.
Abdul. It looks a mess.
In tenth spot, we have this one. [sighs]
I genuinely thought
it's a feather. [laughs]
[all laugh]
It's fine. They're very good feathers.
But we'd like to see it in the chocolate.
And the biscuit was a bit soft.
And in ninth place, we have this one.
Dawn, you overbaked them. [chuckles]
[Matt] Kevin takes eighth place,
Maisam seventh,
Janusz is sixth, Maxy fifth,
and Carole comes fourth.
In third place, we have this one.
Oh, sorry, that's me.
Sandro, the only problem
was the little bit too much chocolate.
In second, we have this one.
Whose is this?
[chuckles]
James, feathering was really good,
just needed a bit more time in the oven.
And this one is first place. Rebs.
[laughter]
The feathering is perfect,
the bake is good. Lovely.
Thank you.
[gasps]
I don't know how that happened.
I really don't.
Yes! [laughs]
I did feel really bad 'cause I could hear
Syabira and Abdul talking about feathers.
I just really wanted to,
like, show them… [laughs]
…what feathering is
'cause they would've done so well.
Oh, man,
it looked like a kid made it. [shudders]
Behind me. It's behind me.
[Syabira] Disaster, I would say.
I need to make a statement
with my showstopper,
so I'm staying
rather than leaving tomorrow.
But I think it's very funny.
[bleating]
[Noel] Just the showstopper remains
before Paul and Prue
decide who will be leaving the tent
and who will be crowned Star Baker.
For your showstopper challenge,
Paul and Prue would like you each to make
a beautifully crafted 3-D biscuit mask.
You can use any style of biscuit.
It has to taste fantastic, obviously,
but the most important thing
is that it has to stand upright
on a stand at the end of the challenge.
-You have four hours.
-On your masks…
-Get set…
-[sing-song] Bake!
[Maisam] I am a bit nervous.
Definitely feel like
I'm not in a good position.
So that definitely puts me under pressure.
[Rebs] I love TV and I love TV dramas.
It's a good episode
when they whip out the masquerade ball,
there's gonna be some big drama happen.
Of course, we are asking for
extravagance and ostentation
and showstopper-y madness with this bake.
But as ever, the things that really matter
are the flavour and the texture.
This is quite a tricky challenge.
I think choosing your biscuit
is very, very important.
We want the mass to be able to stand up.
Most of the bakers
will probably go with a ginger biscuit,
or indeed, a sugar biscuit.
The sugar in the biscuit gives it snap,
but rigidity as well.
Butter will make it soft like a cookie,
and it will fall apart.
We want a 3-D mask,
but it's up to them what they produce.
Are they gonna fill that time properly
with lots of flavours and lots of colour?
Or will it be simple
and they're gonna play it safe?
-[Paul] Hi, Dawn.
-Hello.
-Hello, Dawn.
-[Noel] Hello.
Dawn, tell us all about your mask.
[Dawn] It's a bit baroque,
but with a bit of
sort of steampunk kind of, erm…
-Steampunk and baroque.
-[Dawn] Yeah.
-Mixed.
-Wow.
[Matt] Dawn's ambitious gingerbread mask
will be decorated
with lemon shortbread cogs and wheels,
intricate royal icing piping
and a flamboyant crown
made from purple Vietnamese rice paper.
You won't eat the rice paper sails.
-They'll be chewy.
-[Paul] I will.
Ooh. [chuckles] Good luck.
[laughter]
-Hello, Abdul. How are you?
-Hello, I'm good.
You came last in technical. I was shocked.
-Yes. You were shocked?
-Were you shocked?
-I was absolutely shocked, man.
-What mask you doing?
So I'm doing a mask based on my parrot
that I used to have growing up.
-A parrot?
-Yeah, it was an African Senegal.
We called him Motu,
which means, erm, chubby.
-Okay. Chubby parrot.
-[chuckles]
-Yeah, chubby parrot, because he had--
-Fat feathers.
-Yes.
-[both laugh]
[Matt] Abdul's chubby parrot
will be made up of a gingerbread base
decorated with over
90 individual biscuit feathers
in his favourite Middle Eastern flavours.
-Ninety biscuits.
-We'll see.
I hope you haven't bitten off
more than you can chew.
I'm trying to give it my best.
-So hopefully, the taste is good.
-[Prue] Good luck.
-Good luck.
-Thank you.
-Ninety? Wow.
-[Prue] Ninety biscuits.
[Abdul] That's exactly the green
my parrot had.
I think he had
a double personality disorder
because he would be adorable at one point,
and all of a sudden just bite you.
[Noel] But Abdul's parrot isn't
the only mask with a split personality.
My mask today is about two face, one soul.
So I believe everybody
have a dark side and a good side.
Are these the two sides
of your character, Syabira?
-Yes.
-Or there's two sides of the judges?
[chuckling] I believe
you all are very lovely.
[all laughing]
[Noel] Syabira's lemon and jasmine
gingerbread mask will be adorned
with dozens of chocolate
sandwich biscuits on one side,
and the other decorated with heart-shaped
orange rose and pistachio
shortbread biscuits
and a crown of pistachio and rose macaron.
You're doing a lot of work here.
You're making over 100 biscuits.
-[chuckles]
-Abdul, you've got competition.
[laughing]
[Noel] While Syabira and Abdul
have adopted the "more is more" approach…
I can do this.
…Maisam is planning
on keeping things simple.
So I've made the, er, gingerbread dough,
which is the main structure of the mask.
I'm gonna treat this like a blank canvas
and just paint over it.
[Noel] Maisam's gingerbread mask
will be highly decorated with royal icing,
isomalt shards
and a couple of decorative coconut
and lemon shortbread biscuits.
-Just two kinds of biscuits?
-Two kinds of biscuits, yes.
And lots of decoration.
And lots of decorations.
I really want to do well.
I wanna step it up
and show my artistic side.
I hope it turns out like that.
-Okay.
-[Prue] Good luck.
Thank you.
[Matt] Maisam isn't the only baker
channelling their inner artist.
[Janusz] I'm making today
a Cubism-inspired mask.
It's abstract,
I'm going for an abstract mask,
so it's not… It's based on my face,
ah, it's not my face.
[Matt] Janusz's face will be made up
of a spiced Polish biscuit base
with a matcha and vanilla shortbread nose
and two strawberry sugar biscuits
decorated with brightly coloured fondant
to bring his Cubist-inspired mask to life.
Did you go to art school?
Unfortunately, I didn't.
-I've got my eye on some of your art.
-Oh, have you?
-Yeah.
-I'll do you some.
-Thank you.
-Oh, I want one.
I just moved into a new flat,
so I want something weird there.
-Oh, really?
-Something cool.
-Everyone comes and be like--
-You two. 'Cause you're my favourites.
Don't say that out loud
'cause people get jealous.
Er, everyone…
[both laughing]
[Matt] Janusz may have
taken his inspiration
from the art galleries of Paris,
but Maxy's muse
is a little closer to home.
I'm really into carnival
and soca music and stuff,
so I thought
I'd make a mask that ties in with that.
I was gonna make an African mask,
but I chose to do this
because nice and colourful.
[Matt] With its multicoloured
tuile feathers,
Maxy's highly embellished
coconut and lime biscuit mask
wouldn't look out of place
amongst the flamboyant costumes
at Notting Hill Carnival.
I've always been quite drunk at Carnival.
-Really?
-Yes.
-So it's just a blur of colours and noise.
-[chuckles]
[laughs] It's just like… [exclaiming]
[Matt] Maxy isn't the only baker
bringing carnival vibes into the tent.
I'm doing, like, a carnival mask.
Erm, and I'm trying to make the mask
a bit like feminine-masculine type mask.
A bit like me.
Fighting the gender stereotypes here.
[Matt] With a sturdy gingerbread base,
Sandro's carnival mask
will feature shards of strawberry
and elderflower sugar biscuits,
sculptural isomalt,
dozens of white chocolate roses,
and ornate gold piping.
If you can achieve that delicacy…
[Sandro] I definitely will.
That's the aim.
I'm quite, erm, keen on detail.
So I really want
to prove that I can actually do it.
[Matt] Whilst the devil
is in the detail for Sandro,
Rebs has more structural issues in mind.
It's hard 'cause you want it thin
so it's nice to eat,
but not too thin that it breaks.
[Noel] Rebs is going
for a Venetian-style mask
with whisky snap decorations
and an intricate royal icing.
To ensure it fits snugly on its stand,
she's shaping her gingerbread base
with an unconventional mould.
So my mould's actually, er,
my dog's old water bowl
that I took a hammer to.
I'll get her a new one after this, maybe.
[Noel] Using a face-shaped mould
should enable the bakers to achieve
the three-dimensional masks
that the judges are expecting.
[Kevin] Mum used to watch
plastic surgery programmes,
all the, kind of, reconstructive surgery,
and it reminds me of that.
It won't be macabre. Well…
I say that, I suppose it is a little bit.
[Matt] But it's not without its risks.
Worried about it breaking.
That's my worry.
[Matt] Overwork the dough now,
and the biscuits could be tough to eat.
[Carole] Where's your gob?
[Matt] But if not moulded enough,
the masks could
lose their shape in the oven.
[Dawn] Bye-bye, little face. Be good.
[Matt] But if making a gingerbread mask
wasn't nerve wracking enough…
[Carole] I hope he doesn't crack.
[James] Oh, that is hot.
…James is attempting to construct his mask
from the most
notoriously brittle biscuit of all.
[James] So, I'm using a brandy snap.
I'm expecting a bit of breakage.
They are so fragile.
Let's see how they hold. [laughs]
[Matt] Inspired by a creature
from one of his favourite horror movies,
James' brandy snap mask
will need to bear
the weight of coffee buttercream
chocolate eyes,
and spiced fortune cookies.
I'm not gonna lie,
if I was going to make
Pan's Labyrinth-y horror creature…
-Yeah.
-…I'm not sure I'd use brandy snaps.
Feel like if Prue blinks,
-the whole thing will… [mimics crashing]
-[both laughing]
[Carole] Me and my daughter
are addicted to musicals.
One of my favourite ones
was The Phantom of the Opera.
And one of my favourite songs
in that is "Masquerade".
[Noel] Carole's
musical-inspired mask upon a mask
will be topped with
a crown of orange zest tuile feathers,
and highly decorated
with a fondant mask and brooch
and dozens of mini macarons
that will frame
her painted gingerbread face.
You seem to have lard on your bench.
Did you put lard into the gingerbread?
-Yeah.
-Really?
-Got butter in there as well?
-No.
-[Paul] Just lard?
-Yeah.
It'll be quite heavy.
How's that gonna be standing up?
I've got a, erm, plate stand.
-It just leans against it?
-[Carole] Yeah.
Okay.
-Good luck. Thank you.
-[Matt] Good luck.
[Carole] So far, so… Oh…
He is cracking a bit,
but we can cover that.
[Noel] The bakers must judge
when their biscuits are perfectly baked.
[Syabira] Three more minutes.
I don't want to overbake it.
I don't want to underbake it, either.
[Noel] Overdone and they'll be hard
and unpleasant to eat.
He's starting to go brown now.
There, think he's cooked.
[Noel] Underdone,
and they could collapse once assembled.
Just keep it together, lassie.
[Maxy] It's kinda really fragile.
When it cools, it will get a lot stronger.
[Matt] But for Rebs…
[Rebs] It doesn't look great.
…disaster has already struck in the oven.
[Rebs] It's broken. I'll have to redo it.
I don't have time to.
Oh, my days.
This isn't good, this isn't good.
[exhales steadily]
[tutting]
Through way half you are, bakers.
[chuckling]
-Sorry, he's on reverse setting.
-[clicks]
Bakers, you are halfway through.
That's better.
[Matt] A broken mask
means Rebs is falling behind.
[Rebs] So I'm starting
my biscuit mask from scratch.
Just hope second time works.
[Noel] For the other bakers…
Right. Next.
…time to move on
to their decorative biscuits.
[Maisam] The butterfly is
not 100% how I wanted them to be,
but, erm,
with the royal icing, it will work.
[Janusz] So this matcha biscuit
will be for the nose.
So my nose is 3-D element.
[Syabira] That is my orange-rose
pistachio biscuits.
And then after that, I'll reduce
the oven temperature and do my macaron.
[Kevin] The bake
on the macarons were good.
In the first challenge,
it was the decoration I didn't finish.
I want to redeem myself
after the first challenge.
It wasn't great.
[Matt] Kevin's macarons
will form barnacles
on the face of his mythical siren mask,
complete with gingerbread starfish,
brandy snap seaweed, and an isomalt crown.
[Noel] Look at that peppermint visage.
Who is she?
Erm, she is a siren.
So these mythical creatures--
-Lure you onto the rocks? Onto the rocks?
-Yeah. Mmm-hmm.
[sighs] That's a beautiful story.
-[both laughing]
-One for the kids.
This, this is basically
what you wanna do, yeah?
-Yeah.
-Lure Paul in with your bakes.
[Noel vocalises]
[both] And then, smash him on the rocks.
[both laughing]
[Matt] As Rebs'
remade mask finally hits the oven…
[Rebs] I'm behind,
but I won't let it panic me
because there's no point.
-…the other bakers…
-Stay.
…are ready to start
bringing theirs to life with decoration.
[James] So I'm getting the piping on.
[Matt] Bakers!
Are, are you coming in?
You can… Oh.
Bakers, you have one hour left.
So now I'm just covering it
with a thin layer of buttercream,
because that's where the fondant will go.
I think this part is, is so therapeutic,
so relaxing.
[Maxy] I feel like I'm doing a messy job.
[Rebs] It looks terrible,
but it should look
like a mask once I cut it.
[Noel] I love this stuff.
It's Vietnamese rice paper.
[softly] Wow!
It's what they wrap
kind of spring rolls in,
but it's not cooked, obviously.
-It's just--
-Paul said he'll eat it--
Yeah, he says he will. I hope he doesn't.
Paul can eat anything.
I saw him eat a spanner once.
-Oh, dear.
-He's like a tiger shark.
[Maxy] She looks messy now,
but she'll look gorgeous.
I promise you.
Oh, this is so stressful.
This is not, not an exciting task. [sighs]
This is the finished design,
and I'm just
adding in the finishing touches.
[whispering] Yay.
There is a side of me that's like,
"Why are you finished so early?
You could do something else."
But then, er, when I look
at my design, I think I'm happy with it.
But I don't know
what the other bakers have made.
So it could still be
a lot better than mine.
Bakers, you have
400,619 grains of sand left.
Or half an hour.
Right. Brooches and paintwork.
Let's make it pretty.
So what else is left to do?
You seem to be pretty much…
For the first time ever,
-I'm ahead of time.
-So what will you do with the extra time?
-Will you go to the shops, maybe?
-Maybe, yeah.
Maybe google… google some masks.
-[Matt] Some masks?
-Yeah.
It's a bit late for that.
You've already made it.
I really would like to be further ahead,
but I gotta pipe all the decorations on.
[James] There's a moment, when the mask
is the worst thing that's ever existed,
you just have to push through. [laughs]
You have… a little bit of time left
to apply
the remainder of your 90 biscuits.
-[Abdul] Yes.
-[Matt] It's a delicate time, isn't it?
It is, yes. I have, what, 20 minutes left?
-Yeah. And you need a steady hand.
-Ooh, boy.
I'm shaking. [groans]
[Kevin] I'm doing five different colours
of buttercream to add texture to the hair.
Oh. There's something
inside the fortune cookies.
There is.
I have wee horror movie clichés, erm,
-that I've been sticking in.
-Wow.
I can't wait to see it finished.
Me neither. Be the first time. [laughs]
You didn't do it in practice?
The first one was awful.
Second one fell immediately I finished it.
Third time lucky.
Yep, exactly.
Here we go. Here we go. [chuckles]
-Bakers, you have ten minutes remaining.
-Okay.
[Rebs] It's not perfect,
but it could be worse.
I'll be happy once it is upright
on the model and doesn't break.
It's a big if.
[Noel] The judges
are expecting the delicate masks
to be presented standing upright.
-[Sandro] Stay.
-Please stay together.
[Noel] Only now will the bakers find out
if their biscuits are
robust enough to hold their own weight.
[sighs] You're kidding.
You're kidding me on.
Okay, I can do it.
Just broken all the seaweed off.
So I'm desperately, quickly melting
some isomalt to stick it back on.
Got a… Got a macaron that's loose.
[Dawn] It's on.
It's on.
Does anybody want any help?
Are you finished?
-You finished?
-[Carole] Yeah.
[Rebs] I think I'm okay
at the minute. Thank you.
[Carole gasps]
[grunts] It's fallen.
Oh, no.
Bakers, you have five minutes left.
[Carole] Oh, no. It's well cracked.
-One has cracked? Whose?
-[Janusz] Yes.
Carole.
-[sighs]
-Is she crying?
Oh, mate.
Oh, not Carole.
Oh, I might cry.
-I might cry.
-Carole, do you need some help?
Can't mend that.
Is she all right?
-Don't worry, you can do it.
-It just collapsed.
[Noel] Carole, don't panic.
Yeah, but I can mend it. I can't.
That was, I was
so pleased with that. Really pleased.
But it's still beautiful
and it looks amazing.
What you don't want to do now is panic.
Have a minute to just… calm.
I think it's okay.
I don't think it will go anywhere.
[Maxy] Oh, no!
One just snapped off. [chuckling]
These biscuits keep breaking on me.
This is so fragile.
[Rebs] Oh, why is my hand shaking so much?
Oh, just stop shaking.
Oh, my days. What do I do? What do I do?
[Abdul sighs]
I keep on breaking the edges.
I'm terrified about it all falling apart
before the judges get to see it.
I'm going to need
someone's help here, please.
-Sorry.
-[Janusz] Okay.
Wow. It's amazing.
[Maisam] It's a functioning mask.
[chuckles]
I don't want it to be too tight or loose.
Okay I'm gonna try for that. How is that?
If you let go gently.
If you let go gently and see.
-[Janusz] It's okay.
-Yeah.
[Janusz] Don't touch it.
Bakers, your time is up.
Please step away from your masks.
[Sandro] Oh, yours
looks like a piece of art.
-[Janusz] It's LGBT mask.
-Oh, you are representing.
Yeah, that's what I mean.
Don't worry, you've got this.
-My little baby.
-I don't wanna see you cry.
No, mummy crying.
-[both laugh]
-Yeah, and this time it's you.
Mummy crying.
[Matt] It's judgement time
for the bakers' biscuit masks.
Syabira, would you like
to bring up your showstopper?
[Paul] That's impressive.
The detail you've managed to get
and the texture you've achieved,
-it's very clever.
-[Prue] It's astonishing.
On the left side
is orange rose pistachios biscuits.
And on the right side
is the chocolate sandwich, erm, biscuits.
The chocolate cookies are delicious.
Proper chocolate, rich, indulgent.
[Prue] Very nice shortbread.
There's always a danger with rose
that it tastes so artificial.
Anyway, it's lovely.
[Paul] The mask biscuit,
it's not particularly strong in lemon.
Having said that, I think
all your other biscuits are amazing.
And what a design.
-Excellent, Syabira. Well done.
-Thank you so much.
It is exceptionally pretty.
And you can wear it, can you?
-You can.
-I'd like to see you wear it, Paul.
I really would.
-Ha-ha.
-[Sandro chuckles]
These are what?
Strawberry and elderflower
sugar biscuits covered in white chocolate.
It's absolutely delicious.
That's a really fresh kick of strawberry.
With the white chocolate,
works really well.
Exceptional job.
[Prue] That is a real horror story.
[laughter]
[Paul] You've done an amazing job.
The detail is incredible.
It's a brandy snap base.
There's fortune cookies on the top
that each have
a horror movie cliché in them.
"Don't ask for directions."
From the cannibal movies, yeah.
And it's a Italian meringue
buttercream with coffee through it.
-Delicious.
-[Paul] Brandy snap's good. Really crispy.
I think overall you've done
a fantastic job to create that.
Lots of thought,
lots of different techniques.
Quite effective. Well done.
It has brandy snap seaweed on one side,
macaron barnacles on the other,
and gingerbread starfish.
-Not much of a macaron.
-[Prue] Nice favour. But overbaked.
Brandy snap is good.
-[Prue] This is sugar biscuit.
-Flavoured with Szechuan pepper.
Never had that, I really like that.
I think you've pulled it off.
The whole thing is a joy.
To have achieved that much accuracy
and delicacy without piping,
is quite amazing.
-[Paul] It's a 3-D mosaic.
-[Prue] Mmm.
This is the tahini.
-Yes.
-Texture's wonderful.
Very short.
I find the tahini flavour
so unusual, but I think it works.
-[Paul] And this one?
-[Abdul] Sumac.
-That's a great biscuit.
-[Prue] Mmm.
Lovely zing to it.
Abdul, you have done an exceptional job.
Tastes great.
Well, I must say,
I think it looks totally amazing.
It's like a little burst of happiness.
I think the design is very good.
I love the amount of detail
you've gotten out of it as well.
But what do the biscuits taste like?
Erm, it's a lemon, lime
and coconut sugar biscuit,
decorated with the tuiles.
These are very good.
They're really beautiful.
-What about these?
-[Paul] Florentines?
-[Prue] Nice.
-Florentine's good as well.
Overall, fantastic design, great flavours
and well-thought-through.
-And good texture, which is difficult.
-Hmm.
-[Paul] Thanks.
-Thanks.
-[Prue] Well done, Maxy.
-Thank you.
[Prue] The steampunk bit is wonderful.
The definition of the little cogs
and everything's terrific.
I just would like
to be able to see out of the mask.
You needed to cut the eyes out.
I can do that for you.
-Yeah, go ahead.
-[both chuckle]
Not getting much lemon,
-but I like the ginger biscuit taste.
-[Dawn] Right.
[Paul] A beautiful blend
of ginger and spices.
I agree. The gingerbread is delicious.
I think you've done a good job.
-Yeah, well done.
-Thanks.
[Paul] Clever.
Well, it's certainly
the most perfect example of cubism.
[Paul] Yeah, I'll try this one.
Er, this is a Polish spice biscuit.
-That's Christmas right there.
-Hmm, I love that.
[Paul] Punches you with the flavour.
-Thank you.
We had a little bit of a problem
right at the end.
It's a shame. I can see
the detail that's gone into it.
Now, your recipe,
the amount of lard that's gone in there,
it's not stable enough.
It's so soft. I'm not putting pressure.
Baking it a little more may have helped.
But the piping is beautiful.
What are these made of?
[Carole] So you've got almond, er,
macarons and, erm, orange zest tuiles.
They're lovely.
Macarons are delicious, too.
Really get the almond in there.
It's a shame 'cause it's beautiful,
and I love the taste of those and those.
Beautiful.
[Prue] I think it's very charming.
It's perhaps a little small.
-Yeah.
-I think you could've done more.
And it is small.
Tell me the flavour.
Erm, so it's like a mixed spice biscuit.
I think the spices are too hot
for a ginger biscuit.
It's quite soft.
In fact, it's more cookie-like
than it is biscuit-like.
I think you could be
a fascinator designer.
-Or a milliner.
-[Paul chuckles]
[Paul] Mmm. Thank you.
[Prue] Thank you, Rebs.
[Paul] It's pretty.
I like the colours. It's vibrant.
Remind us of the biscuit again?
Er, it's gingerbread.
Quite thick.
-Hmm.
-[Paul] But it's baked okay.
I love the butterfly biscuit.
It's a nice design.
It's simple but effective.
I think in an ideal world,
I'd have liked you to do a little more.
-Thank you.
I don't know.
I wouldn't say I'm in a safe position.
I could have done a lot more
with the time that I had,
but I definitely done something
that I'm proud of.
If I do go through,
it will be by the skin of my teeth.
You know, I did have a good day yesterday,
but is it enough to keep me in?
Don't know.
I definitely focus on the negatives
more than the positives,
but I don't think
there were many positives to focus on.
So I just hope that my technical
kind of helps me a bit.
[Noel] It's decision time
for Prue and Paul.
Who will be crowned Star Baker,
and whose time in the tent
has come to an end?
Well, those masks
were pretty impressive, weren't they?
Amazing. You know,
this lot are really imaginative.
[Matt] I thought James' bake
was very inventive.
[Paul] Oh, amazing.
-Really clever. I thought his flavours--
-He could get Star Baker.
I think he's in line for Star Baker.
I think Maxy's in line.
Has Syabira done enough to go up there?
Possibly. But she struggled
in the technical.
Carole's obviously in trouble.
She chose the wrong recipe for that mask.
It was too thick, underbaked,
too much lard. It just collapsed.
I think Maisam is in trouble.
I mean, her mask was okay,
and I can't really go past that.
Compared to the others,
she wasn't up there.
I think it looked good.
And I found Rebs' really good.
But when you looked around the room
and saw shape-wise what Maxy did,
what Abdul did,
then you realise that in this show
you do have to go the extra mile.
I think, for that reason,
I think you've got to put Rebs,
Maisam and Carole…
-[Prue] Yeah.
-…right down at the bottom.
I think one of those three will leave.
It's not easy
to pick a Star Baker this week
because everybody did a great job.
But we have to pick one of you.
So the Star Baker this week is…
Maxy.
Oh! That leaves me with the horrible job
of announcing the person who's leaving us,
which is extra horrible because we've got
to know you all so well so quickly.
But the person who is leaving us is…
Maisam.
I'm sorry.
[softly] Maisam…
[Rebs clicks tongue]
[Maisam] I think I'm definitely proud
because, obviously, I'm only 18.
So, at this age, I've definitely
done something to be proud of.
And this is definitely
not the end of my baking journey.
It's where it starts.
[Paul] You got on
The Great British Bake Off.
At 18 years old.
-Not many people do that, not at your age.
-Eighteen years old.
[Rebs] I'm happy
that I'm still here, obviously,
but I'm so sad for Maisam.
It's just so sad
that she's going so early.
[Paul] Next week
don't make any more mistakes.
Yeah. No, I won't. [sniffles]
Well, that was an emotional ride.
That one.
Yeah. I really do need
to pull my socks up now.
I've had a second chance,
so I need to take it in both hands.
I can't believe I got Star Baker.
I didn't think I'd get on to the show,
let alone get a handshake
and become Star Baker.
So I'm really happy.
It's definitely given me
a confidence boost.
Erm, so yeah, I am really happy.
Looking forward to next week.
[closing theme music playing]